I'm gonna invite you guys to keep standing for the reading of the word this morning, because we're gonna be in the Gospel of Matthew, chapter six, verses nine through 13.
We have already said this this morning, but we're gonna say it again together.
This is gonna be the Lord's prayer.
If you don't know it, read along with us.
Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us and lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil.
For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever.
Amen.
And then I'm sneak attacking you because we have another scripture, but you can sit for this one because it's not a gospel passage.
Okay.
We're also going to be looking at Hebrews 12.
verses four through 14, you're welcome for letting you sit, okay?
I'm gonna be reading from a different translation, because I've got my Bible right here, so it's gonna be a little different, but I trust that you guys will be able to follow along, okay?
So, after all, you have not given your lives and your struggle against sin, and have you forgotten the encouraging words God spoke to you as his children?
He said, my child, don't make light of the Lord's discipline, and don't give up when he corrects you.
For the Lord disciplines those he loves and he punishes each one he accepts as his child.
As you endure this divine discipline, remember that God is treating you as his own children.
Whoever heard of a child who never was disciplined by his father.
If God doesn't discipline you as He does all His children, it means you were illegitimate and you're not really His children at all.
And since we respected our earthly fathers who disciplined us, shouldn't we also submit even more to the discipline of the Father of our spirits and live forever?
For our earthly fathers disciplined us for a few years doing the best they knew how.
But God's discipline is always good for us so that we might share in His holiness.
No discipline is enjoyable while it's happening.
It's painful.
But afterward, there will be a peaceful harvest of right living for those who are trained in this way.
So take a new grip with your tired hands and strengthen your weak knees.
Mark out a straight path for your feet so that those who are weak and lame will not fall but become strong.
And work at living in peace with everyone.
Work at living a holy life.
For those who are not holy will not see the Lord.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks, pity God.
Okay, I'm going to transition now to a different mic.
I don't want to hold that for the whole time.
Let's see if this works.
Hello.
I have all the faith and our wizard in the back.
Dean's got it.
We're good.
Okay, excellent.
Beautiful.
All right, my friends.
So again, if you missed it earlier, my name is my Beth.
I'm the youth pastor here.
And I'm super excited to be here with you this morning getting to share the word with you.
Particularly as we kick off this Lenten season, how many of us came to Ash Wednesday service?
It was such a great service.
It was beautiful.
We ate our pancakes on Tuesday night.
We indulged.
We had our king cake.
We've all had our fun.
And now it's time to stop and reflect and start this kind of process of looking inward and growing and challenging ourselves.
But before we do any of that this morning, I want to talk to you about music.
And those of you who've heard me preach before know that I like to take the scenic route, but I promise we're going to get to our destination eventually.
So just trust the process.
Okay.
So I adore music.
I come from a music loving family.
I probably have listened to some, at least one song every day of my life.
If you went into the church office and you smell a candle and you hear music, that's me.
Okay.
Like I always have music going in the background.
I hate silence.
It scares me.
So I'm always listening to something in some way, shape or form.
And my taste of music is all over the place.
So I have a Johnny Cash lyric tattooed on my ankle.
So I love Johnny Cash.
I'm a big fan of Hozer.
I really, really like 1940s music and would go to the mat for Ella Fitzgerald or Dean Morton.
So I kind of have eclectic taste.
But I'm here this morning.
I'm going to make a bold theological claim.
because I think I can have the authority to do that because of how much I live music.
And that is one of the best songs of all time is sung by the incomparable Donnie Osmond.
Okay?
And I'm wondering if anyone can guess the song that I made.
Some of you in your hearts know exactly where I'm going.
That's right.
It's I'll make a man out of view from the Disney classic Mulan.
And you guys know what I'm talking about.
Don't act like you don't.
I know you've seen Mulan.
I know you know the song I'm talking about.
It is the best song for any situation.
If you need to hype yourself up, you put on, I'll make a man out of you, Sam is shaking his head, because he can't believe that this is where we're at, but stay with me, okay?
It is, it is a, for those who, has anyone not seen move on?
Oh, Andy, why?
Okay, a quick rundown.
They're training for war.
They're fighting, they're getting ready to go to war.
It's the Chinese people that've been invaded by the Huns.
And they need Donnie Osman to come in and whip them into shape.
And so Donnie Osman comes in and he starts singing about let's get down to business, to defeat the Huns.
Yes, thank you.
So they're trying to whip them into shape.
And when that song comes on, it's just this powerful hype song for me.
It does something to me.
It's like there's this drum montage and there's this buildup.
And it's really intense and it's talking about how we're going to make a man out of you, right?
It's a training anthem.
This is how you grow stronger.
This is how you get tougher.
They're training for something, like they're training for intense battle.
They're getting ready to do something new.
And if we're honest, I think that song captures something about what we believe instinctively about growth.
that becoming better requires a little bit of pressure, that transformation requires training, that strength is built through resistance.
And in Hebrews 12, the writer uses almost the same kind of language, but it's not about soldiers, it's not about battle, it's about being sons and daughters of God.
So you heard me say the word discipline a lot.
I want to acknowledge that that word can make some of us feel some type of way, maybe.
Discipline is not a fun church word.
It's not something that gives us the warm fuzzies.
When we hear discipline, we often think punishment, or maybe we think anger, right?
We think about someone getting in trouble, but that's not actually how the author of Hebrews is using the word.
See, the writer is reminding us, reminding believers, reminding Christians that God disciplines those he loves.
And he does that because they're his children.
Okay?
This is corrective, it's not punitive.
All right?
It's a way of training us.
And I particularly like verse 11, where he says, no discipline seems pleasant at the time.
It's painful.
Later on, however, it produces a harvest of righteousness and peace for those who have been trained by it.
So you're tracking with me.
This is not about punishment.
This is not about shaming you.
This is not about us being reprimanded.
This is about training.
We are people in progress.
But I don't know about you.
When I experience correction,
When I experience someone telling me that I should have done something differently or better, when someone points out that I have messed up, my first response is not, ah, yes, beautiful growth.
How fun, how exciting.
No, it hurts.
Like, it hurts.
Discipline is uncomfortable.
And my first instinct is, what did I do wrong?
Is God disappointed in me?
Is this punishment?
And I love this passage in Hebrews because it's almost like the writer is anticipating those kinds of questions from us because he reminds us again and again, God disciplines those he loves.
And if you endure discipline, then that means God is treating you as his child.
So in other words, discipline is not rejection.
Rejection pushes you away.
Rejection says you don't belong here anymore, but discipline in this passage is described as the action of a father towards his child.
This is not God closing the door.
This is not God saying he doesn't want anything to do with us until we can get right.
This is God refusing to leave us unchanged.
God disciplines us because he's not done with us yet.
And this is very, very different than punishment.
All right, so we've laid that foundation, all right?
We know that when we're talking about discipline, what we're talking about is God shaping us so that we can share in holiness.
God is disciplining us so that we can share in holiness.
So we're gonna come back to Hebrews in a moment, but I want us to look now at our Matthew's passage in the Lord's Prayer.
Because all Lent and season, we're going to be dissecting the Lord's Prayer.
We're going to be trying to figure out what it was that Jesus is teaching us by reciting this prayer to us.
In Matthew 6, in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus teaches his disciples how to pray.
And he doesn't use very churchy religious language, and this is not like
a whole lot of repetition going on.
Like he's giving them a formula of like how they need to be praying.
And it's got a rhythm to it and it reveals in that rhythm in the words that Jesus says, it reveals what God's priorities are.
All right.
And the very first thing that Jesus teaches his disciples to say in prayer, our father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name.
Hallowed be thy name.
Before we get to daily bread,
before we get to forgiveness, before we get to deliverance, we first have to look at holiness.
Holiness, okay?
So it turns out that holiness and discipline are connected, but before we dive into the how and the wise, I'm gonna pray for us one more time, and we're really, really gonna dig in, okay?
Holy God.
We ask that you would meet us in this moment now that we've kind of laid groundwork, Father, for where we're going, now that we are prepared to discuss what it means to love and be loved by a holy God.
Father, would you open our hearts to hear from you?
Jesus, we know that you're in this space and we're ready for you to talk to us.
We love you too.
Amen.
Okay.
So, Halloween is not a word that comes up often.
In fact, I've only ever heard it in this context.
I used to think that it was connected to Halloween as a child, and so the Lord's prayer very much confused me.
I didn't understand what Jesus was getting at, right?
But Halloween, holy, someone say holy.
Thank you, right?
So holiness, what does this mean, right?
What does holy actually mean?
What does it mean that we love a holy God?
Well, first things first, holy is not some sort of, it's not just a quirky personality trait, it's not,
a characteristic, right?
It is what God is made of, right?
It is who God is.
So holiness is the substance of God, right?
And what holiness means, what they've taught us in seminary, is that holiness literally translates to set apart, set apart, which means completely other.
Like God is so much not like us, that he is completely other.
It's something that is hard for us to wrap our heads around.
And it's not just though that God is completely different than us.
He's completely different than us because he is perfectly good, perfectly good.
He is perfect in his love and in his justice and in his mercy.
He is pure and uncorrupted.
We can't fathom that because we're not like that.
But every aspect of who God is, every aspect of God's character is perfect.
And what I want you to hear this morning that I think is so important too is that God is not holy because he remains removed from us.
Like God has not made holy because he's separate from us and we're so disgusting that we would come in and ruin his holiness.
That's not how God stays perfect.
God doesn't stay perfectly good because God avoids us.
God is holy because he can enter our brokenness without being corrupted by it.
We have a holy God who touches lepers.
We have a holy God who eats with sinners.
We have a holy God who invites children to come to him, who forgives enemies, who can be crucified on a tree and say, Father, forgive them, they know not what they do.
We have a God who steps into our mess and into our murkiness and into our own corruptibility and remains completely and perfectly good.
So holiness in Jesus is radiant goodness.
It is love without selfishness, justice, without cruelty, mercy, without compromise.
And I want you to also know that in scripture, a name is not just a label.
So when we talk about God being holy, we're kind of naming God holy.
And that isn't a label, that's not just a sign that we attach to God.
In scripture, in the ancient Near East culture, a name represents your reputation and your honor.
So when we say that God is holy, we are making a claim about God's honor, about God's character, about God's
reputation.
And there's a passage in Ezekiel that sometimes gets taken out of context.
And it says that the people have profaned God's holy name.
And we tend to think of that as taking the Lord's name in vain is how we interpret that.
But that's not actually what Ezekiel is saying.
He's not just saying that they mispronounce God's name or that they use God's name as a swear.
When Ezekiel says that the Lord is upset because they profane his holy name, what he's saying is I'm upset because people are misrepresenting me.
Their lives made him look unlike himself.
Does that make sense?
So like what they're saying is what God is upset about in this passage is that people are saying that they worship a holy God and that they know that God is holy, but then they live as if that's not true.
And that upsets God because it's misrepresenting his character.
So when we pray, hallelujah be thy name, we're asking for far more than just personal piety, y'all.
We're asking that the world would see God as he truly is.
And that includes how we reflect him.
Because whether we like it or not, if we claim Christ and we claim that Christ is holy, then people look at us to see if we really believe that or not.
They look at us because we claim to be little Christians, right?
That's what it means, little Christ.
They look at us and they see how we treat other people on Facebook and they're like, well, I don't know about that.
Or they look at us driving with road rage and they think, I don't know about that.
We are always being watched because we are claiming to be Christ like we are claiming to love Jesus.
And so we had better start acting like it because, and this should really humble us, if God is holy and we carry his name,
And we claim to believe that God is holy, then how we live either clarifies that or distorts that, right?
This is a big deal to say that God is holy, to say that we believe that God is holy is a big deal because if we act as if we don't believe that that's true, it can misrepresent God's character.
When we pray, how it would be in our name, it is a big,
Deal.
I also want to take just a second and say this.
When we pray this prayer, when we pray how it would be the name, we don't make God holy just by saying those words, right?
We are acknowledging that God already is holy.
So when we are praying this and we are together as a community coming together saying, God, we believe that you were utterly good.
You were utterly trustworthy.
You are completely other in your purity.
When we say God, how would be thy name?
We are saying you are holy, we are not.
And that distinction really matters because we know about ourselves, right?
Like we know that we're impulsive and we know that we are inconsistent.
We know that we oftentimes justify ourselves and we converse
grudges and we love conditionally.
That's just a part of being human.
We do.
We say our love is unconditional.
It's not.
It's not like we love conditionally, right?
That's just honesty.
God does not do that though.
God is not like us.
His mercy does not
Fluctuate with mood his justice is never corrupted his love does not grow tired or weary He is holy and we are not That is why we need grace friends And so if we go back to Hebrews We see something deeper at play here Because the writer of Hebrews tells us not only that God is holy
but that God is calling us to be holy too.
This is great, terrible news, right?
He says, make every effort to be holy because without holiness, no one will see the Lord.
Without holiness, no one will see the Lord.
Holiness is very important to God.
And I find it absolutely fascinating and compelling that that verse pursue holiness.
Because without it, you won't see the Lord.
That verse comes at the tail end of nine verses about discipline.
I don't think that's random.
In this passage, I see a God who does not simply just call us holy and move on.
God is in the business of forming us.
God is in the business of shaping us, transforming us.
Like this is training, this is work.
And so I was trying to think through examples of what discipline actually looks like in practical life.
Like what does it mean that God disciplines us?
Because again, some of us may think of God spliting us and that's not what we're talking about, right?
Like I think that discipline looks like God helping us step into the best version of ourselves, which means that sometimes it looks like conviction.
That moment when the Spirit nudges you and you know you may have spoken out of pride or anger or selfishness, like discipline looks like conviction.
Or sometimes it may even look like repentance, naming your sin before God honestly, instead of excusing your sin, instead of ignoring your sin, coming before him and saying, Lord, I messed up and I don't want to again.
And then sometimes I think the discipline of God looks a little bit like pruning, like God gently cutting away habits and behaviors and attachments that keep you from loving well.
And pruning is not comfortable but neither is surgery and both are necessary for healing, right?
So the discipline of God, conviction, repentance, pruning, like that seminal classic Disney song,
God is trying to make something out of us.
God is trying to help us achieve that best version of ourselves that we can only achieve when we are living in relationship with Him.
And the reality is pursuing holiness is hard work.
It requires effort on our behalf.
No one ever said that this Christian thing is supposed to be easy.
Being a Christian doesn't mean that we just come and sit in this room on a Sunday morning and then call it for the rest of the week.
We are a people that is constantly in training.
And our training looks like that conviction of sin and behaviors that don't honor God.
Looks like repenting and actually acknowledging that we sin.
Methodists don't like to talk about sin.
I've learned that.
I've only been a Methodist since 2019, but before that I was a Baptist.
And we love to talk about sin.
Okay?
We talked about sin.
That's the only thing we talked about nine times out of 10.
It was go tell other people that they're sinners though, right?
Like so it was evangelism and sin.
Methodists are a little uncomfortable talking about sin, and I get it, because especially in the deep sound, we get brow beaten with it a lot.
But the reality is we have to acknowledge that we sin.
We have to talk about the fact that we're kind of messed up, which means that we do kind of messed up things.
And it doesn't necessarily mean that everyone is a murderer, right?
But it does mean that, like, we gossip, and we belittle people, and we
get angry when we shouldn't, we want revenge when it's not ours to take.
Like we are petty people because we're human.
So the way that God disciplines us sometimes is actually convicting us of sin, which means that we go to the foot of the cross and we lay down certain behaviors and we lay down certain attachments and we lay down certain addictions and then we don't pick it back up again.
Repentance.
And then God will come in and remove the things that we need Him to remove.
We have to allow God's discipline to come in and prune our hearts, take out the things that we're carrying that are not ours to carry.
Sometimes the things that God needs to come in and take out of ourselves to take out of our hearts is not even a sin.
It's not something that we did.
Maybe it's something that was done to you, right?
Like the things that we carry with us, sometimes it's not even guilt over the things that we have done.
It's things that have happened to us and the Lord needs to come in and prune that out of us.
It is work.
This is hard.
Training only makes sense if you know what you're training for though, right?
Like no one ever trained for marathon without knowing when the marathon was or which race they're racing in, right?
Surgeons don't train just to hold a scalpel and stand there, right?
Like there's a purpose to this.
There has to be.
So what are we training for?
What is the goal of all this?
What's the point of this conviction and repentance and pruning?
Well, it isn't just rule following for the sake of rule following.
And it's surely not about religious performance.
This is not about managing your image so that you look like a hallmark Christian, okay?
The goal for this work
for all this effort is holiness.
John Wesley described holiness as love excluding sin.
Holiness is love excluding sin, not love excluding people, love excluding sin.
And like we talked about earlier then, holiness is not about this cold distance from God or from each other,
Holiness is about love being purified, love without cruelty, love without pride, love without self-protection.
That's what God is trying to form in us.
The basis of everything that God does for us, this is like a secret, I think, because we don't talk about it a lot and I wish that more pastors did.
The whole point for all of this church stuff, the whole point for this whole Christian journey hinges on one thing and it's love.
That's it.
We make it so complicated.
Love.
Jesus loved us enough to come and die for our sins so that we could spend eternity with Him.
It's love.
Our mission as Christians, the number one thing that Jesus tells us to do.
Love God, love your neighbors.
It's all about love.
And Hebrews reminds us that God is going to discipline us.
because he loves us, not because he's angry, not because he's disappointed, but because he intends to share his holiness with his children, which brings us again to Lent.
Lent is a training season.
Lent is when the church intentionally slows down and allows God to search us.
This is a season for fasting,
This is a season for confession.
This is the season for repentance.
This is a time where we're invited to sit and analyze our lives honestly, not to earn grace, but to make space for it.
And here's where it gets a little interesting, I think.
We all want the good life, whatever that means to you, right?
Like, but we all want some version of the good life.
We may not all agree on what good means, but our culture defines good as whatever makes us happy.
Okay.
Scripture, Lent invites us to remember that the good life is not whatever makes us happy.
It's whatever makes us holy.
Okay.
Happiness is fragile, y'all.
It rises and falls with our circumstances.
Holiness runs deeper.
holiness is what studies you in Christ.
And that studied life looks like love.
That studied life of being rooted in Jesus when we are actively pursuing holiness.
When we are allowing Jesus to come in and convict, allowing us to repent, allowing us to give up the things that we need to give up.
When we do that, we start to look more like Jesus.
We start to have more patience when we're irritated.
We start to have more mercy when we've been wronged.
We start to develop self-control in a new way when it would be easier to lash out.
We start to have humility when we would rather defend ourselves.
The way that we become better versions of ourselves is by pursuing holiness and allowing Jesus' love to do a good work within us.
And if you hear nothing else this morning, I want you to hear this.
Remember, if the enemy can quietly erode your capacity to love, if evil can come in and make you cynical and harsh and overly self-protective, then he has weakened your resemblance to Christ because love is what makes you look the most like Christ.
Holiness is love shaped and steady by God.
And this is
hard, like I've been saying, hard work.
This kind of formation takes effort.
This kind of formation takes humility, takes surrender.
It stretches us, but it leads somewhere good.
So when we pray howl would be thy name, we're not just admiring God's holiness from a distance.
we are asking that his name would be honored in the world, that his name would be honored through our own actions.
When we pray, Halle would be thy name, we are saying, God, I don't wanna misrepresent your character, help me to live like you.
And so my hope, and my prayer for us, as a church living in the world, in this day and age, at this particular time, in this particular space, that our prayers would start to sound more like this.
Holy God.
Do not let my own pride distort your mercy.
Do not let my bitterness distort your love.
Do not let my impatience distort your grace.
Show me what it mean does not reflect you.
Give me the courage to confess it.
Give me the grace to release it.
Train my heart to love like yours.
Make your name beautiful in me.
And all God's people would say, amen.